.TH FZN2XML 1 "19 September 2012" "" "G12 User's Manual"

.SH NAME
fzn2xml \- A tool to convert FlatZinc into XML\-FlatZinc.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fzn2xml
[
.BR OPTIONS " ]"
.I model.fzn

.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts the FlatZinc instance in
.I model.fzn
into an XML-FlatZinc document.
.PP
By default, the XML document will be written to the file
.IR model.xml .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message. 
.TP
.B \-\- version
Print version information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Output progress information as conversion proceeds.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-to\-stdout
Write the XML to the standard output instead of the default output file.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-comments
Include the items in the original FlatZinc instance as XML comments in the
generated XML document.
.TP
.B \-\-system\-dtd\-location <dir>
Specify the directory containing the XML\-FlatZinc DTD.
This directory will be used in the DOCTYPE declaration of the generated
XML document.

.SH "DEBUGGING OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-config\-info
Output information about how this executable was compiled.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-statistics
Output messages about time/space usage to stderr.
.TP
.B \-\-pprint\-before <name>
Pretty\-print the IR before stage <name>.
.TP
.B \-\-pprint\-after <name>
Pretty\-print the IR after stage <name>.
.TP
.B \-\-pprint\-ignore\-file <file>
Ignore items from <file> when pretty\-printing.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-before <name>
Dump the full IR before stage <name>.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-after <name>
Dump IR after stage <name>.
.TP
.B \-\-stop\-before <name>
Stop conversion before stage <name>.
.TP
.B \-\-stop\-after <name>
Stop conversion after stage <name>.

.TP
Valid stage names:
parsing, structure-checking, type-inst-checking, xml-conversion.

.SH "VERSION INFORMATION"
This manual page documents
.B fzn2xml
version 1.6.0.

.SH AUTHORS
The G12 team.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xml2fzn (1)
