.TH FZN_CPX 1 "19 September 2012" "" "G12 User's Manual"

.SH NAME
fzn_cpx \- a FlatZinc interpreter for G12/CPX

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fzn_cpx
[
.BR OPTIONS " ]"
.I model.fzn

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fzn_cpx
evaluates FlatZinc models using the G12/CPX solver.
Normal output is written to the standard output; errors are written
to standard error.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print usage information.
.TP
.B \-s
Output solver statistics in the solution stream.
.TP
.B \-f
Ignore any standard search annotations on the solve item.
.TP
.B -a
For satisfaction problems, print all solutions.  For optimization
problems, print intermediate solutions.
.TP
.B \-xp\-mode <mode>
Select the explanations mode.  Valid choices are "none",
"lcg", "fwd" and "bwd".  (The default is "fwd".)
.TP
.B \-mip\-prop
This option is currently ignored.
.TP
.B \-pseudo\-cost
This option is currently ignored.

.SH "LANGUAGE SUPPORT"
This section describes the subset of FlatZinc language that is
supported by
.B fzn_cpx .
.PP
All FlatZinc types except var float and array of var float are
supported.
.PP
Built-in operation s involving the types var float and array of
var float are likewise not supported.
.PP
The following variable selection strategies are supported:
first_fail, anti_first_fail, smallest, largest and input_order.
.PP
The following value choice methods are supported:
indomain_split, indomain_min, indomain_max.
.PP
The following exploration method is supported: complete.
.PP
Set search, i.e. the set_search/4 annotation, is not supported.
.PP
The MiniZinc standard library has solver\-specific global constraint
definitions for the G12/CPX solver in the directory
.BR g12_cpx .

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mzn2fzn (1)
.PP
.I "Specification of FlatZinc"
